[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY OSMANI: So my friend's
son does this really cute thing
where they install
games on their phone.
And then for weeks
after, they keep
getting notifications
saying that their village is
under attack.
Can you do that on the web?
MATT GAUNT: Now you can.
ADDY OSMANI: Now you can.
How?
MATT GAUNT: Basically
what happens
is you register
your service worker.
You then ask it to subscribe
these to push message.
Shows a little
dialog saying, do you
want to allow this
to happen, yes or no?
So hopefully then the
kids won't actually
enable this at that point.
But if they do,
then at that point,
you'll get a special token.
So that user-- send
that to your server.
Keep it.
When you want to trigger
a push notification,
you can then use that endpoint,
send it a specific request.
And that will basically
wake up the service worker
on that user's device.
[? Go call. ?] There's
a push message.
What do you want to do about it?
At that point, you can
just show a notification.
You can go back to the
server and say, hey,
what was this for?
You show your
notification, and then you
can respond to click events.
ADDY OSMANI: Nice.
MATT GAUNT: So that's literally
the whole enter and flow,
start to finish.
ADDY OSMANI: So can
push notifications,
with the push API, can
they show me images?
Can I include content in there?
What can I include?
MATT GAUNT: So you can
do Title-- title text.
You can do body text.
You can have an image to the
side of the notification.
And you can also do
buttons now as well.
So you can actually
add two buttons
that you can respond to.
ADDY OSMANI: So I
can show an image
showing that my village is on
fire but also a button to--
MATT GAUNT: Extinguish
the fire or watch it burn.
ADDY OSMANI: Watch it burn?
MATT GAUNT: I don't
know what you're into.
ADDY OSMANI: This got
very dark very quickly.
MATT GAUNT: It's
also interesting,
because now we're looking at
doing native notifications
for Mac, which is
really nice, because it
means that we get rid of our
own notification center thing.
We're now going back into
native notifications and their
[? trades ?] and whatever
else goes with it.
ADDY OSMANI: And
push notifications
are not a Chrome-only
thing, right?
MATT GAUNT: No.
So they're in Chrome and
Firefox at the moment.
I think other browser
vendors, once they
start doing service
worker, they can
start looking at it as well.
ADDY OSMANI: Sweet.
MATT GAUNT: There is some
bad stuff with Chrome.
And since we use GCM, so we
have some proprietary bits.
ADDY OSMANI: What's this GCM?
MATT GAUNT: GCM-- good point--
Google Cloud Messaging.
ADDY OSMANI: OK.
MATT GAUNT: I've been drinking
the Kool-Aid for too long.
So there's some proprietary
bits you have to do for that.
But again, there's
new specs that
are coming out with the old.
Wipe all of that out,
because the moment
you have to go into
Google Developer Console,
you have to register
for an API key.
All that's going to go away.
So you just have
one API, one set way
of doing this that all
the browser windows going
to then take and use.
It's going to be so much better.
ADDY OSMANI: If I'm
correct, we have
a codelab on push notifications
as well people can check out.
MATT GAUNT: Yes, which is well
worth doing, because that one
is regularly kept up to date.
I think my old blog
post at this point
has probably seen better days.
ADDY OSMANI: So
basically you're saying
don't visit your blog
under any circumstances?
MATT GAUNT: No,
that's just a blanket
rule for all of my content.
But yes, that's what I'm saying.
But yeah, there is a blog
post, and it'll step you
through all the guides.
And it also goes through GCM and
how to set all that stuff up.
So yeah, go check that out.
ADDY OSMANI: Oh,
and if someone wants
to simulate push notifications,
DevTools lets you do this,
I think.
MATT GAUNT: Does it?
ADDY OSMANI: Yes, it does.
MATT GAUNT: Mm.
Oh, is that the bell icon?
ADDY OSMANI: It's the bell icon.
MATT GAUNT: Yes,
and you can do that
from service worker in tools.
ADDY OSMANI: Cool.
[MUSIC PLAYING]